Author Guidelines
Firat University Journal of Experimental and Computational Engineering (FUJECE) is published to provide resources for the relevant fields of study. FUJECE is a multidisciplinary, peer-reviewed, periodical and open access journal. The language of the journal is English.

Articles submitted for publication are evaluated by international reviewers. The articles are accepted for publication or rejected by the editors, taking into account the reviewers’ comments. The journal follows a single-blind peer-review process where the reviewers have access to the personal information of the authors, yet the authors do not have any access to the information about the reviewer(s). The authors are informed when a major (resubmission for review) revision or minor (correction required) revision is required for the articles that are not considered ready for publication upon initial submission according to the feedback of the reviewer(s). Articles that are not considered scientifically sufficient are rejected. The revisions requested from the authors should be completed within 30 days for major revisions and 20 days for minor revisions. Articles that fail to meet the revisions are rejected.

The articles submitted for publication should be written according to the article writing format of the journal. Articles that are not written in this way are not included in the printing order.Only the submissions to the journal’s website (https://dergipark.org.tr/en/pub/fujece) are taken into consideration. All responsibility for the submitted works belongs to the author. All authors are required to have ORCID ID numbers. The journal follows a single-blind peer-review process for the evaluation of the articles in order to ensure originality, relevance and readability.

Firat University Journal of Experimental and Computational Engineering (FUJECE) publishes original “Research Articles,” “Reviews” and “Case Reports”.

Research Articles
Full-text articles that are prepared on the above-mentioned scientific fields and consistent with the purpose and scope of the journal are processed for publication. Research articles that present original research with findings and results while contributing to the related literature and science are deemed worthy of publication. Firat University Journal of Experimental and Computational Engineering (FUJECE) focuses on original scientific studies that are theoretical, computational and experimental in the fields of basic and applied sciences. It is recommended that the length of the article should not exceed 25 pages.

Review Articles
The language of the articles to be published in Firat University Journal of Experimental and Computational Engineering (FUJECE) must be English. In review studies, a sufficient number of scientific articles should be covered. The subject should be summarized using current knowledge and technology. Evaluations should be made accordingly and the findings should be compared and interpreted together with the relevant literature. All developments in the fields of basic and applied sciences and techniques as well as applications in recent scientific studies can be reviewed. It is recommended that the length of the article should not exceed 30 pages. The minimum number of references should be 50 and at least 40% of these references should be the studies published within the last five years (taking the submission date of the article into account). The similarity rate should not exceed 30% for the whole article and 5% on a sentence basis.

Case Study
Case studies should bring innovations with a practical value, provide improvements superior to the available methods and emphasize these innovations and improvements clearly, directly and concisely.
Example:
The causes of and recommendations for workplace accidents and occupational diseases.

 The FUJECE manuscript template can be downloaded at Manuscript Template (Manuscript must be adapted to the template before submission).

Abstract
In this section a short abstract indicating the novelty and main findings of the work should be written. The text of the abstract should be written fully justified, in italics and 10 pt. The abstract should include approximately 100-250 words and should not contain any non-common abbreviations, citations, equations, symbols and expressions with subscripts or superscripts.

Keywords:
A 1-line space should be set under the text of “Abstract” and the font size for the keywords should be 10 points. There must be at least 3 and at most 6 keywords, all of which should be written in lowercase. A 1-line space should be set under “Keywords”.
1. Introduction
Firat University Journal of Experimental and Computational Engineering is an interdisciplinary journal covering the fields of basic engineering. Our journal aims to convey current scientific and technological developments in engineering sciences to the scientists, engineers and its readers. Firat University Journal of Experimental and Computational Engineering publishes both experimental and theoretical studies in basic engineering, gives priority to the publication of articles on rapidly growing engineering fields, and aims to focus on interdisciplinary methods and technologies. This sample, which was prepared for the articles to be submitted to Firat University Journal of Experimental and Computational Engineering, can be accessed from the website of the journal. Manuscripts should be prepared using MS-Word® 2007 and higher versions.

2. Page Layout and Style
The following rules should be followed for the page layout. This document is recommended as the template for the articles to be submitted according to the required conditions.

Basic Layout
The pages of the article should be prepared in A4 (210 × 297 mm) paper size. The top margin should be 30 mm, the left and right margins should be 15 mm. and the bottom margin should be 25 mm. The header and footer should be 15 mm. “Different Odd & Even pages” and “Different First Page” options should be selected for the header. The font type and size for the header should be Times New Roman and 8 points, respectively. The text should be written using English characters in Times New Roman with single-line spacing. The English title of the article should be written in Times New Roman font, 12 points, with only the first letter capitalized, centered and bold. The Turkish title should be written in Times New Roman font, 12 points, with only the first letter capitalized, with 1-line space left after the English title, and in centered and bold. One-line space should be left after the Turkish title. Author names should be written in Times New Roman font, centered and 10 points. Only the first letters of the names of the authors should be capitalized, and the surnames should be written in all capital letters. A 10 pt space should be left after the names of the authors. Address information of the authors should be given in the specified order, with each different address on one line. Address information of the authors should be written in 9 points. The e-mail addresses of the authors should be written in 9-point font size, according to the names of the authors, without any spaces under the address information of the authors. If there is more than one author with the same address information, e-mail addresses should be given in order of names. After the e-mail address, the ORCID numbers of the authors should be written by setting a 1-line space in 9-point font size. There should be a space of 9 points in font size between the ORCID numbers and the line containing the article date information. When the article is sent to the journal for the first time for evaluation, the author's information should be included. The abbreviations used in the article should be first given in parentheses after the concept represented by the abbreviation and only the abbreviated form should be given in subsequent uses.

Headings
Headings should be numbered. The first letter of all words should be capitalized in first-level headings and only the first letter of the first word should be capitalized in subheadings; all headings should be written using bold characters. A 1-line space should be left before and after the headings. Headings should be left aligned. The main heading of the article should be left aligned in 12-point font size. Second and third-level subheadings should be written in the same format as the main headings, being left aligned with 12-point font size. The text should not include a fourth-level heading.

Font
The main text should be in plain, justified and single-spaced "Times New Roman" font with an 11-point font size. Italic or bold font can also be used in special cases that require emphasis. The style specified as "Body" in the Style Gallery of this template should be used for the main text. Paragraph indentation should not be used. A single-spaced space should be left between paragraphs.

Equations
Each equation should be written on a separate line and numbered. Equations should be given in a 1x2 size table with hidden margins. The width of the first cell should be 90% and that of the second cell should be 10%. The formula in the first cell should be centered and the equation number in the second cell should be right aligned. The left and right margins of the cells should be reset. The equation editor in MS-Word® 2007 and higher versions of Microsoft Word should be used to write equations. Equation (1) is given below as an example. A 1-line space should be left before and after the equation.

y = mx +n (1)

The equation editor in MS-Word® 2007 and higher versions of Microsoft Word should be used in writing the equations given in the text or the variables used in the equation. The number and unit used in the text should be on the same line. The decimal separator should be a period instead of a comma in decimal numbers (for example, 3.5 instead of 3,5). For the thousands separator, the period should not be used. Commas or spaces can be used (1,000,000 or 1 000 000 or 1000000)

Figures
All figures should be centered with the column (or to the page if the figure spans both columns). Each figure should be numbered according to its order in the text. Figure captions should be centered below the figure. Each figure should have a number (e.g. Figure 1.) and a caption and should also be written in bold. For figure descriptions, which should not be bold, only the first letter of the first word should be capitalized. The texts in the figures and tables should be written using at least 10 points in font size. Besides, a 1-line space should be left between the figure and the text of the figure. The font size of this space should be 10 points.

Figures in the form of drawings or graphics should be drawn in a picture editing or graphics program, saved as an image file with a resolution of at least 300 dpi and then added to the relevant place in the text. Figures should not appear blurry. If any, the texts in the figure should be clear and the size of these texts should not exceed the size of the texts in the article. References must be given for cited or rearranged figures.

Figure 1. Earthquake record of İzmir station. (a) Acceleration, (b) Displacement response spectra

Tables
Table 1 is given as an example of a table. Depending on the purpose of use, some different tables can also be used. The table caption should be above the table. The style specified as "Caption" in the Style Gallery of this template should be used for the caption.

Table 1. An example table

The texts in the table should be written in "Times New Roman" with 10-point font size. When necessary, the font size can be reduced to 8 points. The equation editor in MS-Word® 2007 and higher versions should be used in writing the equations or the variables used in the equations.

The references to tables, figures and equations should be accompanied by their numbers as they are used in this template (ambiguous expressions such as “in the figure/table/equation below” should not be used). If you want to refer to more than one table, figure or equation at the same time, punctuation marks “,” and “-” can be used. Here, “,” defines the meaning of “and” and “-“defines the meaning of “range”.

Each figure, table and equation in the article should be cited before their use in the text.

Page Numbers
Page numbers should not be added to the article. Page headers and footers should not be used. Such arrangements are made by the journal authorities.

Other Guidelines
- There should be no space between “%” and the number. In English sections, the percentage sign (%) is used after the number (e.g. 23%).
- Suffixes to figure and table numbers should be written according to labial harmony.
- Suffixes to abbreviations written in lowercase are based on the pronunciation of the word. In suffixes to abbreviations written in capital letters, the reading of the last letter of the abbreviation is taken as a basis. However, in suffixes to abbreviations that are read like a word even though the abbreviation is capitalized, the reading of the abbreviation is taken as a basis.
E.g.
In ASELSAN, BOTAŞ, NATO, UNESCO, etc.
- Abbreviations in the text should be made according to the TDK abbreviation index.
- A figure and table should not be placed in different columns or pages with their captions.

3. Results
The Coordination Unit of Firat University Journal of Experimental and Computational Engineering would like to thank all authors for preparing and submitting their articles according to this draft.

4. Acknowledgements
This section is optional. However, this section should not be left blank when the article is submitted for the first time. If the article is supported by any institution, project, person, etc., the relevant information can be specified in this section.

5. Author Contribution Statement
The contributions of the authors to the study should be briefly mentioned in this section. When giving contribution rates, the numbers of the authors should be used instead of author names (e.g. Author 1, Author 2). The contributions of the authors should be explained by considering the criteria required for the preparation of the article, such as forming the idea, the design, the provision of resources and materials, data collection, analyses, literature review, writing the article and critical review. If there is a person or institution that is not involved in the study as an author but contributed to the study, it can be specified separately in this section.
Example:
In the study, Author 1 contributed to forming the idea, making the design and literature review; Author 2 contributed to the analysis of the results, provision of the materials and examination of the results; Author 3 contributed to checking the spelling and checking the article in terms of content.

6. Ethics Committee Approval and Conflict of Interest
According to TR Index Journal Evaluation criteria, the ethics committee approval is required for the use of humans and animals in experimental or other scientific studies, clinical studies on humans, clinical studies on animals, retrospective studies according to the law on the protection of personal data, surveys, interviews, focus group studies, observations, experiments and all kinds of studies carried out with qualitative or quantitative approaches that require the collection of data from the participants by using interview techniques. If the data used in the study is of a type that requires the ethics committee approval document, it should be explained in this section and the ethics committee approval document should be submitted with the article.

If the publication of the study does not require any ethics committee approval, the following information note should be written:
“There is no need for an ethics committee approval in the prepared article”
Whether there is a conflict of interest in the article should be stated in this section. If there is a conflict of interest, information should be given about the relevant person/institution and the reason for the conflict of interest. If there is no conflict of interest, the following information note should be written:
“There is no conflict of interest with any person/institution in the prepared article”

7. References
All references must be numbered in square brackets as shown at the end of this sentence [1]. It is mandatory to use IEEE system as citation reference style.

Link of the journal's reference style in Mendeley: http://www.zotero.org/styles/ieee

The end of the document should include a list of references containing information similar to the following examples:

i. Article
[1] A. Z. Bir, H.T. Kuloglu, Y. Baykal and Y. Cai, "Beam wander characteristics of cos and cosh-Gaussian beams," Appl. Phys. B, vol. 95, no 4, pp. 763-771, May 2009.

ii. Book
[1] A. Lister, Fundamentals of Operating Systems, New York: Springer-Verlag, 1984.

iii. Thesis
[1] Gergün Seçil, "Representations of functions harmonic in the upper half-plane and their applications", Ph. D. thesis, Bilkent University Institute of Engineering and Science, Ankara, 2003.

iv. Presentations at Meetings and Conferences
[1] B. Küçükali, and L. Kandiller, "Deniz Harbinde Filo Konuşlandırma Problemi ve Akaryakıt Tüketim Simülasyonu", Savunma Teknolojileri Kongresi SAVTEK 2002, Odtü, Ankara, 263-271, (2002).
[2] D. Baleanu, "Variational formulation of the Schrödinger field", in Proceedings of XII International Colloquium on Quantum Groups and Integrable Systems, (June 12-14, Prague, Czech Republic, 2003), Czech. J. Phys. 53 (11) 971-976, (2003).

v. Report
[1] A. S. Camtepe, S. Albayrak, and B. Yener, "Optimally Increasing Secure Connectivity in Multihop Wireless Adhoc Networks" Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Department of Computer Science Technical Report TR-09-01, (2009).

vi. Articles in the Magazines and Newspapers
[1] H. M. Şahin, and T. Altunok , "The Renewable Nuclear Energy Sources ", Eco Energy (Monthly Economic and Political Magazine), Volume 37, February 2015.

vii. URL references (e-encyclopeadias, e-books and e-journals)
[1] Wikipedia, URL: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E-mail_address_harvesting (Visited on Feb. 8, 2010).

Appendix
Appendices should be given at the end by classifying them. Appendices can start on a separate page as needed.